Top 10 transfers from the summer transfer window - IMScouting
It's been a hectic summer of speculation, and although it is early days to judge whether a player is a hit or a flop, we've summed up the top 10 transfers this summer and analyzed their performances so far... 
 
 David Villa - FC Barcelona (from Valencia), &#8364;40m 
 
 Undoubtedly one of the quickest and most clinical finishers on the continent, David Villa is set to provide speed and finesse to a Barcelona side that already possesses plenty. 
 Zlatan Ibrahimovic's failure to make his mark for the La Liga champions, in the eyes of Pep Guardiola, paved the way for the Barca boss to bring in attacking reinforcements. 
 When it was announced that Villa was Barca-bound, it was a near certainty that the Swede would move away from the club. 
 The Spain striker bagged a debut goal in Barcelona's 3-0 victory over Santander with a 62nd minute header from inside the box. 
 
 Mario Balotelli - Manchester City (from Inter Milan), &#8364;26m 
 
 Born to Ghanaian immigrants in Palermo, "Super Mario" was adopted by Italian parents at the age of three, and amazingly he only received full Italian citizenship in August 2008. 
 Despite immediately showcasing his potential upon joining Inter, the towering striker often came under fire for his disciplinary problems, particularly during Jose Mourinho's reign at Stadio Giuseppe Meazza. 
 Although never becoming a permanent first-team fixture at the San Siro, he notched 20 goals in 59 games for Inter, often coming on as a substitute. 
 His towering stature and thundering shots eventually earned him a move to wealthy Manchester City this summer, where he scored on his debut against Romanian side Timisoara in the UEFA Europa League. 
 
 Zlatan Ibrahimovic - AC Milan (from FC Barcelona ), undisclosed - around &#8364;25m 
 
 Inter Milan's most fearsome striker in his time there from 2006-2009, Ibrahimovic found the net 57 times in 88 appearances, often producing the spectacular with his amazingly powerful shots. 
 The Swede made a big-money move to then-treble winning side Barcelona but was deemed surplus to requirements after just a year, despite scoring 16 goals in 29 appearances for the Catalans. 
 Inter's fiercest rivals, AC Milan , made a shock move for the forward and were able to successfuly snap him up to the anger of his former fans in the blue half of the city. 

 Javier Mascherano - FC Barcelona (from Liverpool), &#8364;20m 
 
 Barcelona purused Mascherano to add some steel to the side following the departure of Yaya Toure to Manchester City . 
 
 The Argentine controversially opted to demand a move away from Liverpool and reportedly refused to take part in the game against Manchester City as a result, which ended in the Anfield outfit's 3-0 drubbing. 
 
 Mascherano's insistence to make the switch and resulting unprofessional conduct forced a reluctant Roy Hodgson to eventually let go of the midfielder. 
 
 Mesut Ozil - Real Madrid (from Werder Bremen), &#8364;15m 
 
 The young German playmaker became hot property after enjoying a superb World Cup campaign. 
 Ozil was thrown in at the deep end by Germany boss Joachim Loew to take on a crucial role for the three-time World Cup winners and the gamble paid dividends with the Werder Bremen youngster proving to be a creative force in attack, scoring the winning goal in the 1-0 victory over high-flying Ghana. 
 These performances have earned him a lucrative move to Jose Mourinho's rebuilt Real Madrid , despite formerly expressing his admiration for arch-rivals Barcelona. 
 The 21-year-old now has the opportunity to show he has what it takes to become Madrid's own Messi. 
 In his first match for Real, Ozil came off the bench for the final half hour to replace another high-profile Real signing in the shape of Angel Di Maria. It was not enough time to make an impact as Los Blancos failed to break the deadlock against Mallorca and the match ended in a scoreless draw. 
 
 Robinho - AC Milan (from Manchester City ), undisclosed - around &#8364;15m 
 
 Adding to an already star-studded line-up, AC Milan did not stop at the capture of Zlatan Ibrahimovic , landing the celebrated Brazilian international who was actively seeking a move away from Manchester City . 
 Robinho will join an exciting array of stars at the San Siro, alongside Ibrahimovic, Ronaldinho and Alexandre Pato, to form a potentially trophy-winning side. 
 
 Raul Meireles - Liverpool FC (from Porto), &#8364;13m 
 
 Having lost the heart of their defensive midfield when Xabi Alonso opted for a move to Real Madrid in the summer of 2009, former Liverpool boss Rafa Benitez went on to sign Roma's Alberto Aquilani as a direct replacement. 
 The Italian was an Anfield flop, arriving at Anfield with a long-term injury and eventually struggling to fit the bill as Alonso's successor. 
 Off the back of a successful World Cup campaign for Portugal, ex-Porto man Meireles has all the attributes to slot in to the Liverpool midfield and become a dominant force in the mold of Xabi Alonso or fresh departee Javier Mascherano . 
 
 Rafael van der Vaart - Tottenham Hotspur (from Real Madrid ), &#8364;9.5m 
 
 Tottenham's late, shock move in the dying minutes of the transfer window was a massive surprise to all and a huge boost to Spurs' aspirations of achieving a top 4 finish this season. 
 The Netherlands' midfield maestro is a proven international player with plenty of Champions League experience and an exciting ability to match Tottenham's ambitions. 
 Formerly linked with sworn rivals Arsenal, Harry Redknapp's capture of the 27-year-old Real Madrid player is a coup that is the envy of many Gunners fans.
 
 Sebastian Squillaci - Arsenal FC (from Sevilla), &#8364;6.5m 
 
 Arsene Wenger released Mikael Silvestre, Sol Campbell and William Gallas this summer and went on to openly admit in uncharacteristic fashion that he was looking to strengthen the centre-back positions. 
 Having signed Laurent Koscielny, Sebastian Squillaci eventually arrived at the Emirates Stadium late in the window. 
 Surprisingly, the ex-Sevilla man has a quality that the Arsenal boss tends not to value too highly - experience. The 30-year-old Frenchman has carved out a career stretching back to 1997, ammassing plenty of appearances for Monaco, Lyon and Sevilla before arriving at his latest destination. 
 Squillaci has so far not made an appearance for the Gunners, but is in line for a debut on September 11 at home to Bolton, even though Vermaelen and Koscielny are expected to start. 
 While Marouane Chamakh's move to Arsenal came close to making the list, it is the Gunners' defense that most urgently requires solidity and consistency if the team is to challenge for honors once more. 
 
 Joe Cole - Liverpool FC (from Chelsea), free  
 Is this the shrewd capture of an undoubtedly talented midfielder ready to play a major role at Anfield, or simply a Chelsea reserve player who could not hold to a spot in a title-winning side? 
 Cole's Premier League debut versus Arsenal was far from a success. Having had little impact on the game he was sent off minutes before half-time following a wreckless challenge on Gunners' defender Laurent Koscielny. 
 He went on to miss a penalty in the UEFA Europa League first leg match against Trabzonspor and produced another average performance in the 2-1 win in Turkey. 
 S o far, the England international has made a mediocre start to his Liverpool career, but perhaps he is still finding his form following an injury-ridden career of ups and downs at Chelsea.
