On Soccer - At Barcelona, the Price of Dreams Varies - NYTimes.com 

The last of Europe&rsquo;s soccer seasons, in Spain and Italy, kicked off over the weekend. But the disruptive trading of players will not cease until the summer transfer window closes at midnight Tuesday.		 
There can be little cause to feel sympathy for players whose salaries seem bulletproof in these tough economic times. Yet the way they are traded, often with the buying and selling clubs taking the haggling to the wire, does seem like a demeaning process.		 
Take Zlatan Ibrahimovic. This time last year, he pushed for his own dream transfer, to Barcelona from Inter Milan . He got it when the presidents of the two clubs dined and came up with a bizarre deal &mdash; Ibrahimovic moved to Bar&ccedil;a , with Samuel Eto&rsquo;o and millions of dollars going the other way.		 
Ibrahimovic&rsquo;s star was rising, and Barcelona paid the difference in a deal that valued him at more than $90 million.		 
Ibrahimovic, a Swede born to refugees from the former Yugoslavia, is used to feeling like a player of no fixed abode. He has played for Malmo of Sweden, Ajax of Amsterdam, Juventus and Inter in Italy, and has scored goals and won trophies wherever he found a home.		 
He started like a house on fire, the first player to score in his first four league matches for the club, but then came injuries and doubts about whether a tall, gangly but extraordinarily dexterous big man fit in with Barcelona&rsquo;s sharp and paced rhythm.		 
This summer, Barcelona purchased the Spanish striker David Villa, and it knew he would fit in because Villa is one of seven players on Spain&rsquo;s World Cup-winning side who now play for the club.		 
After failing to repatriate an eighth Spaniard, Cesc F&agrave;bregas of Arsenal , Barcelona pried the Argentine midfielder Javier Mascherano away from Liverpool. Mascherano, known as El Jefecito &mdash; the Little Chief &mdash; for the way he organizes and protects the midfield, is another nomad. And like Ibrahimovic a year ago, he says he has found his El Dorado at Barcelona.		 
His final act as a Liverpool employee was effectively to go on strike last week, when he refused to play in a game against Manchester City. He was under contract, but he withheld his labor.		 
Contracts in soccer these days are nothing more than negotiating ploys. When Roy Hodgson, Liverpool&rsquo;s new manager, rebuked Mascherano as being selfish, he conveniently overlooked that he had also been under contract when he quit Fulham to join Liverpool a few weeks ago.		 
Within hours of losing Mascherano, Liverpool reinvested some of the $25 million it got for him. The Portuguese player Ra&uacute;l Meireles agreed to a four-year contract, saying, &ldquo;I am Meireles and not Mascherano, and that will be clear to the fans.&rdquo;		 
The fans have no choice. They are mostly born to their team, and the only way their loyalty changes is when a new player arrives, promising to wear the team&rsquo;s shirt with pride.		 
In the modern game, the players and their persuasive agents can often, but not always, make a fortune by moving around.		 
Ryan Giggs and Paul Scholes have managed perfectly well to become multimillionaires without ever leaving their boyhood club, Manchester United .		 
They are exceptions in an era which has reversed the power structure in the sport.		 
There was a time when players were tied to a maximum salary and prevented from moving from the team that first registered them &mdash; unless that team decided to get rid of them.		 
Now we have, in Ibrahimovic, a wanderer who has played it both ways. The move last summer was his choice; this summer, he had no choice.		 
Ibrahimovic told the Catalan news media last week that when Real Madrid acquired one of his former coaches, Jos&eacute; Mourinho, the club hired one of the best coaches in the world.		 
&ldquo;Mourinho is an expert at taking teams to the top,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;But we are the best team in the world.&rdquo;		 
The next day, the &ldquo;we&rdquo; was no longer inclusive.		 
Once more, his transfer is highly irregular. Barcelona arranged a deal with A.C. Milan in which the Italian team will take Ibrahimovic on loan for one year, with an option to buy him after that.		 
A.C. Milan shares San Siro stadium with its bitter rival Inter Milan, whose fans deified Ibrahimovic until last season. He sees no problem with changing sides.		 
&ldquo;Inter won everything without me,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;With me, we did well, we won something. Now I&rsquo;m a Milan player.&rdquo;		 
As to the sweet sorrow of his departure from Barcelona, he said, &ldquo;It&rsquo;s the end Guardiola wanted,&rdquo; referring to the Barcelona coach, Pep Guardiola.		 
&ldquo;Guardiola is the philosopher who has shattered my dream to play with Barcelona,&rdquo; Ibrahimovic said. &ldquo;Speak to him, he&rsquo;s the one who has a problem. In football, everything can change in 24 hours.&rdquo;
