Barcelona, Real Madrid &amp; Valencia - How far can the Spanish sides go in the Champions League? - Goal.com 
COMMENT By Subhankar Mondal Every season for the past six seasons they have started their European adventure with hope and optimism, but have eventually collapsed in a heap. Every season for the past six seasons they have forced themselves to believe that they can conquer Europe but have always failed to vanquish their own demons. Every season for the past six seasons for one reason or the other they have failed to get past the round of 16 in a competition that they have won more than any other club. Real Madrid have tried everything, of course - from sacking coaches at will to signing truck loads of players to dishing out millions to re-invoking the president who once ran away to escape the monster he had crafted, they have turned every stone they possibly could. In the end this summer, like a desperate father losing faith in science and evoking some exorcist to cure his possessed daughter, Madrid summoned a certain Jose Mourinho much against their better judgment perhaps. A few years back Jorge Valdano had termed the Portuguese's football as "sh*t on a stick" but now it is that sh*t that they have sustained faith in. The sun and the shadow  Yet with Mourinho in charge, Madrid have more chance of winning the Champions League - or at least progressing into the quarter-finals and beyond - than with any other coach. One of the two best coaches in club football - the other one is Barcelona's Pep Guardiola - Mourinho knows how to win games and although his vision of football and style wouldn't necessarily coincide with the puritan and romantic image of the game that Madridistas foster, at this point in time having gone two seasons without anything and eight without winning the European Cup, perhaps the Madrid supporters need to re-analyse their expectations. A destroyed house first needs to be re-built and then re-decorated. But Mourinho is not God and one wonders if even God can cure Madrid of their current ills, there are so many. This Madrid outfit is essentially a very young side and having signed five players under the age of 23 this summer, president Florentino Perez appears to have taken a broader outlook towards the future. Madrid do have some brilliant defensive personnel and under Mourinho their defensive unit will certainly improve, but with just two out-and-out strikers and injuries already sidelining several players, there is a certain degree of doubt whether this team can win it all. 
 Expectation | Can Ronaldo lead Madrid to glory?  
 Yet, along with the belief that Madrid will progress to the second round despite being pitted in a group that comprises of former European champions Milan and Ajax as well as Auxerre, one does get the feeling that if they can beat the Last 16 jinx, then the trophy will be theirs. But a rather disconcerting question looms. What if Mourinho fails to steer Madrid past the first knockout round? What will the Fifa Club of the 20th Century do then? Brimming with optimism  Madrid's arch-rivals Barcelona, though, are not demonised by any such ills and indeed start the Champions League as firm favourites. The Catalans have been the most successful Spanish club in Europe since the second half of the decade, having won the trophy twice and reached the semi-finals on two other occasions. Pep Guardiola's team remain the awe-inspiring, forceful aesthetic machine that they were in 2008-09 and although Hercules exhibited that they can be beaten, they are admittedly a great team. But Barca are good team - and they are very good, better than the other 31 teams in the Champions League - they are not perfect. The Blaugrana have just 19 first-team players and with star signing and the world's most complete striker David Villa being utilised down the inside-left channel and not as a centre-forward, Barca lack a target man. Lionel Messi has developed to be a brilliant withdrawn inside centre-forward and the fashion in which Barca play most of those games they do not exactly need a Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Didier Drogba-like striker; yet in Europe they might just fall short of an Ibra-esque or Drogba-esque player. In 2008-09 Barca didn't suffer from injuries - not serious ones anyway - and they won the treble; last season they did and they ended up with just the domestic crown. With 19 players, it is a risk to fight on two fronts.  
 Barca flair | Once again Messi will have to turn on the style 
 Moreover, one cannot help but feel that off-pitch factors could roll into play for Barcelona this season. There's suspicion that president Sandro Rosell and Pep Guardiola do not see eye to eye when it comes to transfer transactions; Guardiola signed just a one-year contract extension, implying that he doesn't have complete faith yet in the current regime. Barca are reportedly &euro;442 million (&pound;367m) in debt and slowly but surely the pressure to succeed will get inflated. Nevertheless, progress from the group of champions - Panathinaikos, Rubin Kazan and Copenhagen all won their respective domestic leagues last season - shouldn't be a problem and given the right side of the draw a route to the quarter-finals looks certain. Beyond that... we will see.  Back again  The least fancied of Spanish sides are Valencia and, let's face it - however, David Albelda insists that los Che can repeat their 2000 and 2001 success in which they reached the finals, they probably can't. It's not only that they have lost David Villa and David Silva in the summer - the former scored 21 league goals last season to secure them a top four finish - it's that Valencia do not have the squad to fight in Europe's top-tier club competition until May. Going through form a group that comprises of Manchester United, Rangers and Bursaspor shouldn't be very difficult but anything after that will depend on the luck of the draw. But then again, Valencia play in the Primera Division and teams in the Spanish top flight do tend to throw up surprises from time to time, like Sevilla wining back-to-back Uefa Cups, Atletico Madrid winning the Europa League last season and then blowing away Italian and European champions Inter in the Uefa Super Cup, or like Villarreal coming just within a penalty kick to secure a place in the Champions League final in 2006. Will it be Valencia's turn to shock Europe this term? Let's wait and see.
