Football Transfer Update: Barcelona and Milan are interested in RobinhoFootball Transfer Update: Barcelona and Milan are interested in Robinho 
 Currently, the Brazilian forward Robinho is at Manchester City, but he is quite unhappy in his team. Therefore, he wants out of City, before the end of transfer window. If he remains in his present club, then there are chances that he would not be able to play a big part in his team&rsquo;s success in the coming season. 
 Robinho is a quality player, who has got tremendous pace and exceptional skills. However, somehow he does not fit well in any system. He did not remain at Madrid, for a very long time, while he has been in Manchester City for only a year. Although, he had high expectations from his new club, however, he did not stay long as he went to Santos, in Brazil, on a loan deal, in the middle of last season. Therefore, it looks as if Robinho has a kind of an attitude problem, which makes it harder for others to adjust alongside him. 
 There is no doubt that Robinho is unwanted in Manchester City, right now. Roberto Mancini, City&rsquo;s manager, has been building his team, as if Robinho does not even exist in his options. Already, City has Carlos Tevez, Emmanuel Adebayor, Roque Santa Cruz, Craig Bellemy and other strikers in their squad, while the team has been upgraded with the signing of Mario Balotelli. Robinho, on the other hand, does not seem to fit anywhere among these players. 
 Apart from all these options in the forward line, some other players have been signed to strengthen other areas in Manchester City&rsquo;s squad. There is always a chance that Robinho can make it to the left-wing position, because of his pace and ball control. However, with David Silva coming to Manchester City, during this summer, it seems highly unlikely that Robinho would get a chance there as well. Therefore, the young Brazilian has not been wrong in feeling alienated in his current position. 
 Robinho wants to move out of Manchester City, because this lack of quality football is ruining the best days of his career. However, despite his talents, the only teams interested in signing the forward were Turkish clubs, including Fenerbahce and Besiktas. However, Robinho has recently snubbed the option to go to Turkey, as he said that he would only go to Italy or Spain, otherwise, he would stay in his current club. 
 There is also an option available with Santos to buy the player, but they do not seem to have enough funds to purchase a player like Robinho. However, an option of loan is still available with Manchester City, so if no deal is finalized, this might be used as the only option. However, recently, Mancini has claimed that AC Milan and Barcelona are interested in buying Robinho. 
 Currently, Barcelona and AC Milan are trying to finalize a deal regarding the transfer of Zlatan Ibrahimovic. The player is currently at Barcelona, in the same condition as Robinho&rsquo;s in Manchester City. Therefore, both these clubs have certain conditions before they could start talking with City about a possible transfer. 
 Barcelona wants a swap deal with Ibrahimovic, which means that City would have to pay a little extra cash along with Robinho. This might be hard for Mancini, as he already has a lot of players that are getting difficult to manage. He does not need an extra boost; rather he needs to do away with some of his burden. He might not be able to go into a deal with Barcelona, as the Catalans would not be interested in any such deal with Ibrahimovic still in their squad. 
 On the other hand, AC Milan has termed Robinho as their second option, in case the deal for signing Ibrahimovic fails to finalize. AC Milan is desperately looking for a great forward right now, but Ibrahimovic, on the basis of his accomplishments in Serie A, is always going to be their first option. This saga is still far from being over, while the next week would be very crucial for Robinho, in deciding about his future.
