The National Newspaper 
Spain’s recession has cut deeper than most, with the effect on the Primera Liga’s transfer market all too telling. The 20 top-flight clubs have spent €221 million (Dh811.7m) on transfers during the close season &#8211; a figure which will struggle to climb to half the €462 million spent last summer before the league season starts at the weekend. Barcelona and Real Madrid are responsible for 60 per cent of the transactions, with David Villa’s €40m transfer from Valencia the costliest deal. 
 Barca’s only other signing has been Adriano, the versatile Brazilian full-back, who moved from Sevilla. Real have brought in six players, with Angel Di Maria the most expensive at €25 million. At the other end of the scale, four clubs (Deportivo La Coruna, Mallorca, Racing Santander and Levante) have not spent anything. All those clubs will do well to average gates of more than 15,000, so they have to cut their cloth accordingly. 
 Sporting Gijon are better supported, but the Asturians have lavished just €800,000 on one of their six new players. The trend is for loan deals and free transfers, even at big clubs like Sevilla. One player who could distort the figures is Zlatan Ibrahimovic. Barcelona’s record signing a year ago, he has been less than spectacular and thus linked with one club who could or would pay his wages &#8211; England’s Manchester City. 
 
	 Much as he admires Roberto Mancini, he does not want to leave &#8211; and it is not like City are in need of strikers after the purchase of another, Mario Balotelli, last week. I know Ibrahimovic’s state of mind because I asked him last week, when I saw a man determined and motivated to excel at Camp Nou. Before he was kept on the bench in Saturday’s 4-0 Super Cup second leg victory over Sevilla, Ibrahimovic had been the Catalans’ best player in the pre-season. Any surprise about him not starting was washed away as Lionel Messi stole the show with a hat-trick and rival striker Villa made his first appearance in a Barca shirt. 
 Ibrahimovic is in a quandary. He looks more physically impressive than ever and he wants to achieve at Barca, but there is strong evidence to suggest that Barca want him off their wage bill. The club’s second highest earner after Messi, his Camp Nou career started well after his club record €60m transfer from Inter Milan last summer. The towering Swede scored 21 goals in 41 games, though most came before February and not at the “business end” of the season. 
 He scored the winner against Real Madrid, but a couple of injuries and bust ups with Pep Guardiola, the Barca coach, saw him fall from favour. He was used more sparingly towards the end of the season and played 90 minutes in just one of Barca’s final nine league games. The sight of a luckless Ibrahimovic leaving the field as Barca trailed his former team Inter in the Champions League semi-final summed up the mood. Here was a player bought by Barca to score goals at the highest level…who patently was not doing that. 
 Critics may say that the arrival of Villa consigns Ibrahimovic to becoming a costly squad player, but the departure of Thierry Henry means Barca need an option like him up front. And it is not like he has many options outside Barcelona. Aside from Manchester City, only Real Madrid are capable of paying his wages. Jose Mourinho, his former manager, could be tempted, but even Real Madrid are living in an age of relative austerity after their huge outlays last summer. So we have an impasse. 
 Ibrahimovic bears an “Only God can judge me” tattoo. Sadly for him, Guardiola also has that power, and the out-of-favour striker feels he is not getting a fair hearing at the moment.  sports@thenational.ae 
